---
layout: post
title:  "Muay thai cheat sheet"
date:   2025-05-04 9:00:00
---

Muay thai is a striking martial arts, it is often referred to as the art of 8 limbs because it uses hands, elbows, knees, and feet to strike the opponent. I signed up to Muay thai in June 2022. I had quite a lot of weight from COVID and I wanted to shed it.  Since then I have been doing Muay thai and honestly it's been one of the best decisions I've ever made.  I lost over 10kg in a the space of 6 months.

I remember after my first class I couldn't even move. My body was aching all over the next day. Your body become efficient with the movement. I wasn't very consistent for the first 1.5 years to be honest but showing up still does wonders. It's only recently when I increased my classes to 2x a week that I've noticed real progress. 

**Other reasons to learn Muay Thai?**
- Improves your striking ability
- Improves confidence
- The community aspect, most people are really nice
- The cardio benefits, each session burns about 1000 calories. It means I can't really get that badly out of shape.
- Improves coordination
- The post workout high is real.

**The stance and movement**
The foundation of Muay Thai starts with proper stance and footwork. A strong stance provides balance and power, while effective footwork allows for fluid movement and positioning. Be stable in your movement.

**The techniques**
**How to kick**

- Line up with centre line to target
- Entry of kick: 
	- 45 degree step and out 
	- open ankle towards the bag
	- bring rear arm and touch lead shoulder +   lead arm comes to hip
- Kick movement
	- Swing rear arm and pull your hip up to the target
	- Whole of body should be past the centre line
	- **Knee comes up vertically** and  just before impact it cuts/turns into the target but arcing at the very end - lead with the knee and go across the target. 
	- Your hip only snaps a second before impact
	- At point of impact knee + hip should be past centre line
	- imagine cutting through the target - like a baseball bat going through
	- **Don't swing out the leg** - stay in
	- Arm swing - harder you swing that arm the more force you will drive through
	- breathe out - yell to get the energy out
	- Set the intention -tell yourself it's going to be faster.
- Returning from the kick
	- back to stance
	- Exit from the kick - you don't want to get whacked.
- Best videos I found on how to kick: 
	- [video 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J9dK0uIEXIM&list=LL&index=1)
	- [video 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tEVBENk7XdY)

**Switch kick**
- Stay level during the switch to avoid telegraphing your intent.
- Use the switch kick to set up other techniques, like a double switch followed by punches. 

**Jab**
- slight raise heel of rear foot
- then directly jab

**Straight**
- slight raise heel of rear foot
- keep elbow down as logn as possible so opponent won't see it coming
- turn hip
- shift your weight

**Sparring** **tips**
- Recognise an opponent's patterns in techniques can allow you to disrupt their rhythm and capitalise on anticipated moves.
- Observing an opponent's footwork can reveal vulnerabilities, such as being flat-footed or slow to move laterally, which can be exploited with counter-attacks or angled attacks
- Aim to go forward
- Don't lower arms
- Feint a lot - throws opponent off
- See the opening for a kick - where are they exposed
 - Use punches first to distract the opponent. Then kick so they can't see it coming
- Understand your range/bubble - will my hand/foot reach the target





