---
layout: post
title:  "Guide to work life"
date:   2025-04-20 15:00:00
---

Having worked professionally for just over 5 years, I thought it might be useful to put together some advice for others looking to get started in the professional workplace. <br>
Note: any advice I give should not be taken as truth as this, this is just based off my personal experience.

Applying for a role
---
Firstly, when applying for a job role, it's important to introspect and ask yourself am I right for the role? And, is the role right for you? If you are unsure, spend more time introspecting on what kind of work gives you energy and apply for roles that let you do that. Once you have applied and you are successful in your application, you may be invited for an interview.

Interview prep
---
Here are some tips for interviews:

- Make sure you can explain the foundations of the industry you applying for. Having a clear understanding of how the work functions is crucial. Having a clear understanding will make it much easier to answer questions.
- Go through all your completed projects relevant for the role. Then write a list of skills you need for the new role. Match up how your projects align to the skills. When evaluating your previous projects, think of what went well (WWW) and even better if (EBI) for each of them.
- Try to predict questions you may be asked in the interview. Make a list of these and create sample answers. Most likely you will get some right. A useful framework for answers is STAR which stands for Situation, Task, Action and Result. Sticking to this format makes sure you hit all the points that the interviewer is looking for. 
- Make sure you come across confident. If you are not confident repeat the practice questions.
- Near the end of the interview, you will likely have an opportunity to ask questions. Create a list of good questions to ask the interviewer. If you are scared you are going to forget print out a sheet of the questions. For example, at the end of my interview, the interviewer said he felt like I had interviewed him! Try and not to go overboard like I did, but asking lots of good questions shows interest and sets you apart.

Starting to work
----
Once you get the role, it's worth spending sometime upfront time getting set up properly. Set up your comuter configurations correctly and have all the necessary softwares installed. You want to show you are keen, but you also want to work effectively not rushed. At the start, take one or two projects and make sure you deliver them.

It's helpful to put in some time with seniors at the start to really understand what the company does. Make sure you ask things you wouldn't find from a simple google search. These meetings is especially useful if you are working remotely and helps build connections.

As you learn more, you should slowly start to see how the work all fits in the overall structure. What does the company do? How does it generate money? What is the company organisation chart? How does the work provide value to society?

Start a repo of your notes on projects. You may think writing these notes will take you away from delivering things quickly, but in fact it will pay many dividends over in the future. Your brain is good at having ideas and problem solving, but not so good at retaining vast amounts of detailed information.

During projects
----
At the start you will suck. You lack the experience and skill to be proficient. Ask if you are stuck - don't wait around. The important thing is to show you have given it a good go before you ask. When you do ask make sure you ask good questions and make sure you don't have to keep asking the same questions. As you complete projects, keep detailed notes on what you did and how you solved problems. If you have aspirations for progression, spend time outside working hours learning. Good luck and remember to keep learning!

