---
layout: post
title:  "Introduction to Physics"
date:   2025-05-05 10:00:00
---

In school, I never really understood physics deeply. Sure I was capable of manipulating equations to get the answer, but I never really understood it clearly.  This post is to help me understand the high level areas of physics. I plan on adding more content over time.

What is Physics? Physics is the scientific study of matter, energy, and the forces of nature. It can be broken into:
- **Thermodynamics**: Focuses on heat, temperature, and the transfer of energy. It explores concepts such as the laws of thermodynamics, entropy, and the behaviour of gases and engines.
- **Electromagnetism and optics**: Studies electric and magnetic fields and their interactions. Optics deals with the behaviour and properties of light, including reflection, refraction, and wave-particle duality.
- **Mechanics**: The study of motion, forces, and energy. This branch includes classical mechanics (Newtonian physics), kinematics, dynamics, and the principles governing the movement of objects.
- **Particle Physics, quantum mechanics and nuclear physics:** Investigates the fundamental particles that make up matter and the forces that act between them. Quantum mechanics explains phenomena at atomic and subatomic scales, while nuclear physics focuses on the components and behaviour of atomic nuclei.
- **Astrophysics**: Explores celestial bodies such as planets, stars, galaxies, and the universe as a whole. It combines principles of physics and astronomy to understand cosmic phenomena and the evolution of the cosmos.


